<!--
id: 3565725520
link: http://loudjet.com/a/to-stand-out-you-must-dazzle-your-customers
slug: to-stand-out-you-must-dazzle-your-customers
date: Mon Feb 28 2011 11:30:00 GMT-0600 (CST)
publish: 2011-02-028
tags: customer-service
-->


To Stand Out, You Must Dazzle Your Customers
============================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lhc86aorPt1qzbc4f.jpg)

I had a craving for a burger, and not just any burger… I wanted a
ginormous double patty, cheddar cheese, jalapenos, and the works. What a
better place to go than Red Robin? We were seated instantly, as if they
knew that we were arriving. The waiter, a tall portly fellow with wavy
red hair, promptly brought us sodas and took our order. I opened their
menu and scanned it for the largest burger… my conscience had set in; I
was on a diet. I settled with the lettuce-wrapped salmon sandwich,
hoping that it would satisfy my burger appetite. The food arrived
promptly, but wait… my sandwich had bread buns and it wasn’t lettuce
wrapped. The waiter took it back to the kitchen, he came back
immediately with soda refills and told us that they were remaking my
sandwich. “You guys are going to throw it away?” “Ya, sorry sir, it’s
our policy to make everything right. It’s put at the top of the food
queue so it’ll be out in a few minutes.” Just as he was finishing
telling me this, the manager brought the sandwich out and apologized. I
didn’t care if they took the sandwich back and pulled the buns off and
put the lettuce on, but they didn’t. They wanted to maximize my dining
experience. This waiter could do no wrong. I left him \$10 on a \$40
ticket; I felt great about it afterwards.

The next evening my burger craving could not be subdued. My inner
fat-child was screaming for a burger. Despite my exquisite dining
experience at Red Robin, I felt it was too early to return. I always
enjoyed the burgers at Applebees and decided that would suffice. We
arrived and the place was crowded on a late Sunday evening. The wait was
20 minutes, but the hostess informed us that we could sit at the bar and
order immediately. As luck would have it, there were two seats at the
end of the bar! Applebees must have also understood my desire for a
burger. The bartender, a friendly attractive girl, was clearly flustered
from the overwhelming amount of people. She handed us menus and took
about 10 minutes to take our order. “I’ll have the Cowboy burger!” I
exclaimed. “Pink or no pink?” I always thought that restaurants didn’t
give that option, but I have an irrational fear of food poisoning, so I
responded “No pink, please.” She was kind enough to bring out some free
chips and salsa, she was clearly trying to make the experience as best
as possible given her limited resources. Fortunately a manager came to
the bar to help as well. The food finally had arrived. My mouth watered.
I took a big bite of the burger, and disappointedly saw that the inside
of the burger was very pink. I pointed this out to the manager. He
apologized. He came back with the burger and told me that they fixed it
and proudly told me that it was temperature tested. I looked at the
burger and noticed it was the one I had bitten into. I’m not one that
likes to waste food, so I didn’t care too much. Despite the burger
tasting good and my burger craving had been satisfied, something was
missing.

You see, I view dining as an experience. Red Robin dazzled me from start
to finish. Applebees was just average.

Where do you think I’ll go next time for American-style burger
yumminess?

Bonus: a great story about [Olive Garden throwing away leftovers that a
patron
forgot](http://consumerist.com/2011/02/olive-garden-replaces-the-uneaten-lasagna-you-left-behind.html).

You might also enjoy:

1.  [Hey Taco John’s: Go F\*ck Yourself. A Failure to Understand
    Customer
    Mindshare](http://loudjet.com/a/hey-taco-johns-go-f-ck-yourselves-a-failure-to)
2.  [Your Call is Important to
    Us](http://loudjet.com/a/your-call-is-important-to-us)
3.  [Be Exceptional and People Will Market for
    You](http://loudjet.com/a/be-exceptional-and-people-will-market-for-you)

Follow me on Twitter: [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

