<!--
id: 430123326
link: http://techneur.com/post/430123326/iphone-company-struggle-1
slug: iphone-company-struggle-1
date: Sat Mar 06 2010 06:07:00 GMT-0600 (CST)
publish: 2010-03-06
tags: iPhone, Apple, reflect7, sports-fan-apps
-->


Out of the Gates and Baring It All: an iPhone Software Company's Struggle Part 1
================================================================================

![Ochocinco Kiss's the
Baby](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_kyuwvwntzY1qzbc4f.png)

This segment is the first of a multi-part post cataloging our adventure
as we push our [March Madness iPhone app](http://finalmadness.com) to
the top of the store.  We’ll show you our revenue, stats, and share our
experiences while they’re happening.  We’ve even set up a [counter
website](http://finalmadness.com/iphones "Final Madness Stats") where
you can view the app’s free downloads, \$1 upgrades, and conversion
rate.  So instead of getting important work done, you can stalk the app
24/7 like I do.  We’re basically blogging our entire strategy and
analyzing it for your entertainment.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_kyv08bqkHf1qzbc4f.png)

**Brief History:**[Reflect7](http://reflect7.com "Reflect7 Website") &
our app [Final
Madness](http://finalmadness.com "Final Madness Website")**:\
**

We’re a small software company (3 part-time dudes) located in Lincoln,
NE.  That’s right, Nebraska now has software and the electricity to run
it ([watch out Google](http://reflect7.com/vision)!).  Our Final Madness
app has been released for about a week and it’s been steadily gaining
ground since we started our marketing campaign.  The guys and I took a
bet on how much revenue we thought the app would accumulate. 
[Corey](http://reflect7.com/about-us "Reflect7 About Us Page") said
\$15k, [JP](http://reflect7.com/about-us "Reflect7 About Us Page") said
\$1.5k, and [I](http://reflect7.com/about-us "Reflect7 About Us Page")
said \$54k.  Initially, I was going to do \$15k but it would have been a
jerk move to go right above Corey’s estimate, price-is-right-style. 
Instead, I went balls out to \$54k to make it seem like I had some
inside mojo.  But honestly, if Final Madness can just break into the top
ten list for free sports, we’d all be happy.  Not because we’re making
money, but because we’re finally starting to make sense of the app
store.

**The Campaign:**

​1) Our first order of business was to release a simple and elegant app
that would never crash.  We adopted the
[37signals](http://www.37signals.com "37 signals website") mantra,
“[Underdo your
competitors.](http://gettingreal.37signals.com/ch02_Build_Less.php)“ 
I’ve been doing that my whole life, just ask my previous girlfriends.
Our mobile developer must have been doing it too, because that is where
Corey shined.  He built a simple bracket slide interface with live
scoring, push notifications, linked stats for every game, and previous
years brackets.  Everything a basketball fan needs to follow March
Madness.

​2) Next was cross-promoting Final Madness in our other apps.  For the
last six months, we’ve had nearly 200 team-specific applications on the
market.  Here’s the customer breakdown:

![App customers per
sport](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_kyuwz2qGhp1qzbc4f.png)

The sport with the \$ next to it represents apps that people paid for. 
The ones without a \$ represent free apps (about 75% of our total). You
can see in column O33 that we have about 60,000 customers.

Reflect7 is operating off the assumption that making a top 10 list in
any category is a self-feeding process where new views bring in more
downloads, which raises your app rank for more views.  Our goal was to
leverage our 60k customer base in a condensed time period leading up to
March Madness.  If we could convert 33% of our base to Final Madness in
a period of 7 days, we’d be looking at 20000 downloads.  That’s almost
3000 a day and enough to get us to the top five of the Free Sports
list.  After that, we’d hopefully sustain a top presence from the list
view and March Madness hype.

So far we’ve inserted icons in all of our 91 NCAA basketball apps and a
handful of our NBA apps.  Final Madness had the largest jump in sales
after those updates were approved.  The conversion strategy seems to be
working, but we’ll have more on that next week when I crunch the early
numbers.

​3) Our next move was to build a [Final Madness
website](http://finalmadness.com "Final Madness Website") with a
Twitter/Facebook promotion. That promotion began today.  We’re giving
fans a chance to win a 40” Flatscreen when they retweet or update their
facebook status with [our
message](http://finalmadness.com/promo "Final Madness TV Promo").  So
far, we only have about 5 entries so if you’re reading this, the odds
are pretty good. I’ve never done anything like this before so it’s
really up in the air.  We’re tracking all the links so it will be
interesting to see the numbers next week.

To supplement the promo, we’ve set up a [facebook fan
page](http://www.facebook.com/reflect7 "Reflect7 Facebook Fan Page") and
decked out our [twitter
page](http://twitter.com/reflect7 "Reflect7 Twitter Page") Final Madness
style.

Well that’s all for now.  If you’re just tuning in we’re sitting at
**2033** downloads with **44** \$1 upgrades and it’s Saturday, March 6th
at 6am.  We still have a few marketing tricks up our sleeve but you’ll
have to wait until next week to read about them.  With this being a big
College Hoops Day, I’m anticipating 1000 downloads. Hopefully, that will
push us into the top 10 free sports apps (fingers crossed).

Check back next week for an update on our struggle, including details
on: stats, Mobclix ad campaign, promo stats, strategy…

-Brian

