<!--
id: 3602541949
link: http://loudjet.com/a/life-is-about-maximizing-the-happiness-function
slug: life-is-about-maximizing-the-happiness-function
date: Wed Mar 02 2011 11:30:00 GMT-0600 (CST)
publish: 2011-03-02
tags: happiness
-->


Life is About Maximizing the Happiness Function
===============================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lhfy4bxYib1qzbc4f.jpg)

Recently, I was out with a big group of old coworkers. As most of the
people were leaving, a good friend of mine wanted to stay out and keep
the night going. I always have fun with this guy and I rarely get to
hang out with him, but my inner-voice was reminding me how I need to get
up early so that I can workout and not be hungover so that I can be
productive for my business. I was really bummed that I had to call the
night early. I’m one that doesn’t like to do this, I like to be the last
man standing, if you will. As I was driving home, I was contemplating
whether I should go back and continue the evening’s festivities. But I
knew that if I did, I’d be without a car the following morning, I’d miss
my morning workout, and get a late start on the day. None of which, in
the past, have proven good for productivity.

Do you agree that most people are seeking maximum happiness? That’s how
it seems to me, so it struck me that life can be broken down into a
happiness equation or function with many inputs or variables. In order
to maximise happiness, you must [maximize this
equation](http://nn.com/2011/WORLD/africa/02/20/libya.protests/index.html).
Is your memory of pre-calculus starting to become a bit more vivid?

Let’s pretend for a moment that in our hypothetical happiness equation
that the only variable is money. That is to say, that our happiness only
depends upon money. A graph of our happiness equation H(m) may look
something like this:

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lhfvvgbKTV1qzbc4f.png)

So if you have no money, you have no happiness. If you have some money
you are starting to become more happy. But there is a point, near the
top, where the more money that you have doesn’t bring that much more
happiness like it did at the bottom of the graph. 

Obviously happiness in life depends upon more than just money. Let’s
pretend that happiness is dependent upon the amount of time you spend
socializing and the amount of money that you have. A graph of the
happiness equation H(m,s) may look like this:

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_lhfxksCbfZ1qzbc4f.png)

It’s no longer a 2d graph. This is because there are two variables “m”
(money) and “s” (socialization). Now maximizing this is a bit more
difficult. You’ll notice there are several local maximums. Depending on
where you perceive the
[origin](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Origin_(mathematics)) to be, it
could be stated that if you have a lot of money and little socialization
you are happy or if you have a lot of socialization and a little money
you are happy or even if you have some socialization and some money, you
are happy.

But as we know, our hypothetical happiness equation or function does not
depend solely on money or socialization. Variables could also be healthy
eating, spirituality, exercise, time spent with family, time spent on
hobbies, etc.

You must figure out what is the right amount of each in order to bring
you maximum happiness.

This is part of why entrepreneurship holds so much meaning to me.
Successful entrepreneurship encourages you to really think about these
variables. It encourages you to consider how you spend your money and
how you spend your time. Very successful entrepreneurship can even bring
you a life full of more free-time so that you can try to maximize this
equation even more.

What are your thoughts?

You might also enjoy:

1.  [Which is Better: the Journey or
    Destination?](http://loudjet.com/a/which-is-better-the-journey-or-the-destination)
2.  [It’s Not About Time, It’s About
    Priority](http://loudjet.com/a/dont-have-the-time)
3.  [So You Want to Become
    Rich?](http://loudjet.com/a/so-you-want-to-become-rich)

Tweet me: [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP



