<!--
id: 662289828
link: http://loudjet.com/a/big-omaha-2010
slug: big-omaha-2010
date: Fri Jun 04 2010 00:07:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-06-04
tags: big-omaha
-->


Big Omaha 2010: The Convention, The Parties, and Our Good Friend, Gentleman Jack
================================================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f7dvMmqw1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

[Big Omaha](http://www.bigomaha.com/ "bigomaha.com") was upon us again
and we were ready for two nights of mayhem.
[Reflect7](http://reflect7.com "reflect7.com") was giddy after our
[insane experience at the first Big
Omaha](http://blog.reflect7.com/2009/05/16/big-omaha-recap/ "Big Omaha 2009 Recap (old blog)").
This time around, we knew we could top it. It’s like the second time you
have sex - a lot less awkward and much more enjoyable.

Talking business is our crack and Big Omaha is the dealer. Mix crack
with beer and then put everything within walking distance and you have a
recipe for disaster. There were stogies, Gentlemen Jack cap shots,
drinking games with CEOs, kidnappings, and even a one-legged Jason
Fried. I heard there was some sort of technology convention going on
too… Weird…

The preparty was a blur of fun. We met a lot of really cool people, took
some Tequila shots, and proceeded to dance outside the men’s bathroom to
Coolio’s Fantastic voyage. The entire Lincoln crew was there including
[Lateef](http://twitter.com/golateef "Lateef Johnson Twitter") of
[Deckerton](http://www.deckerton.com/ "Deckerton"), [David
Milligan](http://twitter.com/dmilligan "David Milligan") of
[Advent](http://www.linkedin.com/companies/1019886?goback=.nmp_*1_*1&trk=NUS_PROF-nw_po_co),
and [Ben](http://twitter/benpankonin "ben pankonin on Twitter") from
[Five Nines](http://www.gonines.com/ "Five Nines"). We also met
[Megan](http://twitter.com/meganMnelson "Megan on Twitter") and
[Amy](http://twitter.com/akcolgan "Amy on Twitter") of [9Clouds
Inc.](http://www.9cloudsinc.com "9 Clouds Inc") from South Dakota. We
talked tech, social marketing, and about how this years speaker lineup
was nothing short of amazing.\

After last call, we walked to the Magnolia Hotel. Some intense mobile
GPS led us right to the entry of the illustrious edifice. The giant
mahogany doors slid open, welcoming us. The doorman gave us a wink and
said, “I know where you guys are going…”  At first I thought I had
stepped into a bad rendition of Stanley Kubrick’s [Eye’s Wide
Shut](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0120663/ "IMDB: Eye's Wide Shut"). Why
was this doorman winking at me? Then he muttered something about room
2002 and pointed towards the back.\

We walked past the lobby and patio until we saw a shiny “2002” glowing
enamorously. JP knocked on the door. It slowly opened to reveal a room
full of assholes. Presidents and Assholes. 
[Scoble](http://scobleizer.com/ "scobleizer.com") was there so I assumed
he was the asshole. We walked in and were immediately greeted by
[Foursquare](http://foursquare.com/ "foursquare.com") Co-founder,
[Dennis Crowley](http://twitter.com/DENS "Dennis Crowley on Twitter"),
and [Hot Potato](http://hotpotato.com/ "hotpotato.com") Founder and
CEO,[Justin
Shaffer](http://twitter.com/shafferj "Justin Shaffer on Twitter"). They
told us to pull up a few chairs and we dived right in. Being the biggest
asshole in the room, I took over my usual spot and started dealing out
the cards (and the drinks).

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f99momb81qzbc4f.png)\

These guys were all yuckin’ it up and the convo was hilarious. I don’t
remember anything in particular, except that JP kept taking out his
iPhone to check in to [Gowalla](http://gowalla.com/ "gowalla.com"),
Foursquare’s competitor. How did I know this was happening? Because JP
kept looking over at Dennis and saying, “I’m taking out my iPhone now to
check in to Gowalla.” And even though he’s a millionaire and a social
media powerhouse, Dennis was still cool enough to take it for what it
was, a small jab from a big douchebag.

We mixed it up and had a great evening. JP and I really appreciated the
hospitality that the New Yorkers had shown us. We’ll vouch for those
guys anytime. The night wound down and everybody headed their separate
ways. We rolled back to the Hilton just in time for the early morning
breakfast bar. Our plates were clean at 6:30am.

When we went to bed, I secretly didn’t bring up setting the alarm
because I secretly didn’t want to get up in three hours. And we didn’t.
Kudos for the diffusion of responsibility. We made it to Kaneko just in
time to catch [Scott
Harrison’s](http://twitter.com/scottharrison "Scott Harrison on Twitter")
[Charity: Water](http://www.charitywater.org/ "charitywater.org").

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f7ure0Qn1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

This presentation was a wake-up call. Scott had started as a nightclub
promoter and decided to channel his connections and charisma into
something he was passionate about. That path led to  [Charity:
Water](http://www.charitywater.org/ "charitywater.org"), a nonprofit
organization that builds clean water wells in undeveloped countries. A
\$5000 well can sustain a community of 250 people.

Harrison’s speech was accompanied with heartfelt photos showing entire
communities who had been undermined by dirty water. Kids with massive
mouth growths. Mothers filling jugs out of gritty lakes. Entire villages
destabilized because women and children had to spend their entire day
walking to get clean water instead of going to school.

The fact is, we take clean water for granted. Everyone donated to the
cause after Harrison’s speech. [Jason
Fried](http://twitter.com/jasonfried "Jason Fried on Twitter") and [Gary
Vaynerchuk](http://twitter.com/garyvee "Gary V on Twitter") each through
down \$10,000 while [Tony
Hsieh](http://twitter.com/zappos "Tony on Twitter") helped raise \$2000
with a book-signing the next day. Contribute to the cause by [donating
here](http://www.charitywater.org/donate/).

During lunch we met some really motivated entrepreneurs who were
launching some insane projects. It was inspiring to talk with companies
like [lyconic](http://lyconic.com/ "lyconic.com") who had bootstrapped
by finding clients for custom software. We also chatted it up with our
buddies [Matt](http://twitter.com/PRO_PHOTOG "Follow Matt on Twitter")
from [Nebraska
Entrepreneur](http://www.nebraskaentrepreneur.com/ "nebraskaentrepreneur.com")
and [Toby](http://twitter.com/fiercerobot "Follow Toby on Twitter") from
[Fiercerobot](http://fiercerobot.com/index.html "fiercerobot.com").
These guys are putting the Lincoln Business scene on their shoulders.
Contact them to get involved with Startup drinks and we’ll see you
there.\

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f7vt6IUI1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

Back at Kaneko, [Matt
Mullenweg](http://twitter.com/photomatt "Matt on Twitter") took the
stage with interviewer Robert Scoble. Even though Matt is a cool as a
cucumber, I’ll admit, I wasn’t a fan of the interview. I didn’t really
learn anything except how big
[Wordpress’s](http://www.wordpress.com "wordpress.com") cock was. Yeah,
we know it’s big, so lets ask some better questions. How about some
insights on running
[Automattic](http://automattic.com/ "automattic.com")? With other
programs like [Gravatar](http://en.gravatar.com/ "gravatar.com"), I was
hoping for a little more perspective on how Matt is able to run so many
concurrent projects. Instead, Scoble just fluffed Wordpress, which is
fine, but not very insightful.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f7wv7Y7R1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

Next up was my main man Gary V. This guy can inspire a piece of toast.
Last year he totally killed it and this year I knew he would [Crush
It](http://crushitbook.com/ "Crush It! The Book")!

The V-man took the stage and never gave it back. He spoke about the
“Thank You Economy.” A system where people appreciate the fact that you
share your ideas, passions, and time trying to help them and others.
Your audience may show their appreciation by purchasing your product, or
just by telling others about you. Either way, when you act for [Legacy
over
Currency](http://garyvaynerchuk.com/post/78887853/legacy-is-greater-than-currency "Legacy > Currency"),
it’s always a win-win.

The V-Dog also had the best quote for the [2nd year in a
row](http://blog.reflect7.com/2009/05/16/big-omaha-recap/ "Big Omaha 2009 Recap (old blog)"):

    “People say that you can’t scale one to one relationships, I say
fuck that.”

Out of nowhere, someone in the crowd yelled out, “That’s Right!” Gary
proceeded to give the guy a “you my homie” hug and that guy was our good
friend from Lincoln, [Lateef
Johnson](http://twitter.com/golateef "Lateef Johnson on Twitter").

Lateef has built a web app called
[Deckerton](http://www.deckerton.com/ "deckerton.com") that helps
businesses scale one to one relationships. G.V. and his new sidekick
hugged it out and then Lateef took a seat stage right. He waited
patiently until the Wine Enthusiast gave him a segue. Then, the Lincoln
entrepreneur stood up and delivered his synopsis on scaling one to one
relationships.

There’s one thing Reflect7 likes to say about Lateef Johnson, “That guy
makes shit happen.” Lateef made shit happen at Big Omaha with Gary V.
and that’s some pretty big shit.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f8mslg0M1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

The next speaker was [Danae
Ringelmann](http://twitter.com/GoGoDanae "Danae on Twitter"), Co-Founder
of [IndieGoGo](http://www.indiegogo.com "indiegogo.com"), a
crowd-funding site for new projects. I like the idea of people pitching
their blueprint to the world in order to raise funding. It’s another way
for starters to connect with clients who will prepay for their product.
This way, entrepreneurs can raise capital from customers instead of
investors. Doing this helps businesses focus on their product instead of
appeasing shareholders. I’ve browsed
[Kickstarter](http://www.Kickstarter.com "Kickstarter.com") in the past
and it’s great to see more companies, like IndieGoGo, in this space.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f8naqNnH1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

Next up was shortest tall man I’ve seen: Jason Fried from
[37Signals](http://37signals.com/ "37signals.com"). Here’s how things
work. Your good friend tells you to read *[Getting
Real](http://gettingreal.37signals.com/ "Getting Real")*. You start
reading it and, in the wee hours of the morning, you find yourself done.
The crazy part? You didn’t even blink. It went so fast, you never got a
chance to enjoy it (That’s what she said).

Then, Fried and [David
Heinemeier-Hansson](http://www.loudthinking.com/ "loudthinking.com")
announce
[Rework](http://www.amazon.com/Rework-Jason-Fried/dp/0307463745 "Rework. Go buy this book").
You’re doing the “I have to pee” dance for the next two months while
eagerly awaiting the release. When the book arrives, you clear your
schedule for the day. You’re going to want to wine and the dine the
book. Take your time and enjoy the foreplay because once you open it,
it’s over.

When I finished reading Rework, I engraved the book in gold and put it
on the mantel next to the shrunken monkey skull. Do you want to know
what the scariest part is? I don’t even have a fireplace…

Fried echoed his Rework sentiments wrapped in a few anecdotal stories
from his previous occupation as a shoe salesman. The most hilarious part
was when Fried was mimicking customers trying on shoes. How they do a
little walk with their new shoe and their old shoe. Then how they jump
on one foot to recreate a real-life hopscotch scenario. You had to be
there.

I’m not going to go into the details of Fried’s presentation because it
will scare your pants off. For those of you who aren’t wearing pants,
check out [JP’s review of
Rework](http://loudjet.com/a/rework "JP's review of Rework")
to get the gist.

After the convention, we dined at upstream and conversed about our
passions. Once we arrived at the hotel, my body melted into the bed and
I knew I wasn’t leaving anytime soon. My head was throbbing and it was
time for some sleep. JP and Corey left with the promise that I would
catch up.

Later on, several of our new friends told me that they spotted the
couple at [Urban Wine
Company](http://www.urbanwinecompany.com "urbanwinecompany.com") sipping
fancy Pinot and whispering sweet nothings into each others ears. When I
heard that JP had a sweater wrapped over his shoulders, preppy-style, I
knew it had to be true.

While JP and Corey were enjoying their romantic evening, I was sprawled
out on the shower floor with the worst hangover in history. After about
an hour in the porcelain cocoon I felt revived. A new entity was reborn
and I was ready to spread my wings.

I swooped in on Corey and JP at the
[ArchRival](http://www.archrival.com/ "archrival.com")
[Nomad](http://www.nomadlounge.com "nomadlounge.com") party. The free
drinks were flowing and Corey was hoing. We mixed it up with
[Amy](http://twitter.com/akcolgan "Amy on Twitter") from
 [9Clouds](http://www.9cloudsinc.com "9 Clouds Inc"),
[Ja](http://twitter.com/jstutzman "Follow Jake on Twitter")[ke](http://twitter.com/jstutzman) from
[Elevate](http://www.elevatevc.com/ "Elevatevc.com"), [Eric](http://twitter.com/nonprofitronin "Follow Eric on Twitter")
from Sioux City, and [Anne](http://twitter.com/agoutload) from the [Dog
Blog](http://agoutloud.com/).

When we got back to the hotel, Dusty’s Twitter feed lit up like a
beacon, “Afterparty at the Magnolia.” We grabbed our supplies and rolled
out.

Reflect7 strutted into the Magnolia in style: with a handle of Sailor
Jerry and a 24 pack of Busch Light. We were ready to rumble. I grabbed a
few brewskies and snagged a chair outside to join in on the Convo. Our
good friend Gentleman Jack was out along with some premium stogies. I’m
not avid smoker, but I’ll enjoy a cigar or two.

After almost burning down the Magnolia, I shut my blowhole and listened
up. It was humbling to hear the different perspectives from people with
years of experience in technology. We had
[Rob](http://twitter.com/kr8tr "Rob on Twitter") from
[Rackspace](http://www.Rackspace.com "Rackspace.com") in San Antonio,
[Mike](http://www.twitter.com/trotzke "Mike on Twitter") from
[SproutBox](http://www.SproutBox.com "SproutBox.com") in Indiana, and
others from Phoenix, Boulder, and Des Moines. Hearing these overlapping
and yet different paradigms was an eye-opener. I’ve only been around for
a year, but this tech community is really something else. Like a big
family. I might be the red-headed stepchild but I still felt the love.

Regrettably, a few Gentleman Jack cap shots found their way to my mouth.
That’s when I found my way to the card room where JP introduced me to
[Shane Mac](http://twitter.com/shanemacsays "Follow Shane on Twitter").
Shane co-founded [Ask Summit](http://asksummit.org/ "asksummit.org"), a
conference where you can submit and then vote on questions for the
speakers.

Five minutes later, I found myself in a mind-blowing conversation with
[Mike
Templeton](http://twitter.com/miketempleton "Mike Templeton on Twitter")
from [Catchfire
Media](http://www.catchfiremedia.com%20 "catchfiremedia.com"). Mike
changed my paradigm on Social Marketing. I stopped viewing it as a fad
and more as an age-old way of business. “Social Marketing” is not even
the proper term for it. More like, “Community Integration.” Facebook and
Twitter will come and go, they’re just tools to help. Now that we have
these tools, businesses are better able to monitor their social impact.
They are able to listen to what the community wants and respond quickly.
This type of integration has always been there. Now it’s just on
steroids.

Reflect7 left The Magnolia around 5am after having some great
conversations. We woke up the next day at 10:30am. I didn’t feel too bad
for missing the earlier speakers. It was more about the relationships we
had developed, not just the convention.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3f8o8A7PY1qzbc4f.jpg)

*Photo by [Malone & Company Photography](http://maloneandco.com/)*

The very last speaker was  [Tony
Hsieh](http://twitter.com/zappos "Tony on Twitter"), CEO of
[Zappos](http://www.zappos.com "zappos.com"). Tony’s thesis was to
develop a company’s culture first, and then everything else would follow
naturally. If you get the culture right then you don’t need rigid
scripts for your call center because your employees understand your
values. Spending Big bucks on marketing is no longer necessary because
everything you do is marketing. Every phone call you take is a chance to
WOW a customer. If you create a truly unique and great experience, that
customer will share it with people they know. There’s your advertising.

Zappos puts their phone number at the top of every page. They *want*
their customers to call them because that is an opportunity to get more
information and acquire an evangelist for life. Who needs million dollar
advertising budgets? Invest that money back into your call center and
pay your employees an awesome wage for what they really do: market the
company.

I for one am sick of companies like ebay and paypal who make it almost
impossible to talk with a live person. I’m done with automated answer
lines and outsourced phone centers. Tony says, “Never outsource one of
your core competencies.” I completely agree.

At the end, Tony pulled an Oprah move and gave us all early copies of
[Delivering
Happiness](http://www.deliveringhappinessbook.com/ "deliveringhappinessbook.com").
I’m three-quarters the way through and it’s definitely worth the read if
you missed his presentation. Check back at Techneur on Monday for the
full review.

Overall, Big Omaha 2010 was an unforgettable experience. We met some
great people and left inspired and ready to change the world. We’ll be
back next year with our friends in tow…

Props:

**Big Up Massive Props** to
[Dusty](http://twitter.com/dustyd "Follow Dusty Davidson on Twitter") of
[Brightmix](http://www.brightmix.com/ "brightmix.com") and
[Jeff](http://twitter.com/slobotski "Follow Jeff on Twitter") of
[Silicon Prairie
News](http://www.siliconprairienews.com/ "siliconprairienews.com").
Somehow, they were able to outdo [2009 Big
Omaha](http://blog.reflect7.com/2009/05/16/big-omaha-recap/ "Big Omaha 2009 Recap (old blog)").
Great Speakers, Great Building, Great Parties, Great Food, Great Music,
Great Vibe. Amazing work guys. JP is getting married next year, do you
guys do weddings?

Props to Dennis Crowley, Justin Shaffer, and Robert Scoble for inviting
us into your President’s and Assholes game (and throwing us a few
beers). All class acts.

Props to Rob from Rackspace for being downright hilarious and ordering
pizza at 3am.

Props to Gary V. for bringing insane enthusiasm. Second best quote: “You
know how I’m going to make the Jets America’s Team? When every kid turns
seven, I’m going to send them a fucking Jets jersey.” You crazy fucker,
you’ll do it too.\

Props to Lateef for having huge bollocks and not spamming the speaker
forum.

Props to Jason Fried for making the most god damn unintuitive common
sense that I have ever witnessed. If you don’t own
[Rework](http://www.amazon.com/Rework-Jason-Fried/dp/0307463745 "Rework. Go buy this book"),
go get it.

Props to Scott Harrison for making me tear up worse than when I watched
The Notebook\

Props to Mike Templeton of Catchfire Media for giving me the lowdown on
social marketing.\

 

Props to Megan and Amy for shooting the shit with us at the parties.

Props to the delicious cookies that the Hilton Garden had at the front
desk. Props to me for grabbing a handful.

Props to all of the cool people we met but forgot to mention.\

And Props to my boys JP and Corey. We always have a hilarious time and
even though I was a big hungover puss, we still had a blast.

Slops:

**Big Sloppity Slops** to my stomach and my liver. Why must you fight
me? Just go with it and it will all be over soon.

Slops to the bathroom line at Kaneko.

Slops for not being able to bring food into the conference room. It’s
not like we’re going to stain the concrete floor…\

Slops to Scoble for licking the peanut butter off of Mullenweg’s Balls.
But Props to Scoble for jabbing a few peeps during the panel. Overall,
way more props than slops for the Scobleizer. Let’s face it, does your
name sound that cool with “izer” at the end? Mine doesn’t.

Follow me on
[Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/brianlambelet "Brian Lambelet on Twitter")\

-Brian

