<!--
id: 656259481
link: http://techneur.com/post/656259481/mvp-galls-law
slug: mvp-galls-law
date: Wed Jun 02 2010 00:01:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-06-02
tags: software-development, web-apps
-->


It's All About the MVP, Obey Gall's Law
=======================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3bgjvNJ421qzbc4f.jpg)

Awhile back, I was browsing the net and I came across an article
called [Top 10 Programming Lessons in 10
Years](http://quandyfactory.com/blog/41/top_10_programming_lessons_in_10_years).
All ~~10~~ 11 lessons are something that every software developer should
practice. The one lesson that entrepreneurs should take note of
is [Gall’s Law](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gall's_law). The author
writes:

When coding a project, take the shortest path to a simple system that
works, even if it’s only a fractional subset of the total project
requirements. Then incrementally add functionality, testing as you go,
until the project is completed.

This probably sounds familiar to most software developers as this is the
fundamental principle of [Agile Software
Development](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agile_software_development).
Entrepreneurs should know this concept as developing the minimum viable
product (MVP). Take note, that most of this advice is primarily
applicable to
the [SaaS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_as_a_service) industry
only.

You want to get to market right? Well, you can’t develop a grandiose
plan for a revolutionary product that will change the world. You must
focus on getting to market as soon as possible. Doing so will validate
your product and allow you to receive instant feedback. This is exactly
what software developers do when practicing an Agile Methodology. The
software is delivered in iterations - at the end of each iteration, a
fully tested, usable product is delivered to the customer. That’s what
entrepreneurs need to be doing and hence obey Gall’s Law.

Consider [Lateef
Johnson’s](http://twitter.com/golateef) company, [Deckerton](http://deckerton.com).
Lateef quickly built a MVP. I saw the very first version, it sucked.
However, Lateef knew that that didn’t matter. He knew that he needed a
public prototype fast. He knew that he needed to sign-up customers. He
knew that once he had customers it would be much easier to raise money.
Lateef has done all of this in a matter of just a couple of months. His
current product is still in a crude state, but little by little he is
iterating and delivering based upon customer feedback. Customers are
what matter.

What have we learned? If you obey Gall’s Law you get customers faster,
which in turn means that you get revenue faster, which means that you
profit faster. Thus, obeying Gall’s Law helps you make money faster.

Follow me on Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson).

-JP Richardson

