<!--
id: 675685717
link: http://loudjet.com/a/steve-jobs-henry-ford
slug: steve-jobs-henry-ford
date: Tue Jun 08 2010 01:16:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-06-08
tags: apple
-->


Steve Jobs Is This Century's Henry Ford
=======================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l3oksj5npo1qzbc4f.jpg)

Yesterday, Steve Jobs announced the new iPhone - better known as the
iPhone 4g. You can read about all of the hot new features
[all](http://www.mobilecrunch.com/2010/06/07/everything-you-need-to-know-about-the-iphone-4/)
[over](http://mashable.com/2010/06/07/iphone-4g-announced/)
[the](http://www.cnn.com/2010/TECH/mobile/06/07/apple.wwdc.preview/index.html)
[web](http://www.engadget.com/2010/06/07/steve-jobs-live-from-wwdc-2010/).
If you haven’t seen this video, you should watch at least the first few
minutes:

In 2007, technology changed the future of mankind. The release of the
iPhone was the start of the mobile revolution. The iPhone was the first
smartphone that truly worked like how you would think a smart phone
should work. It was intuitive, it had the best design, and it did a few
things well - instead of doing a bunch of things half-assed.
It definitely had its shortcomings. Most geeks and hackers couldn’t see
past those short comings. They couldn’t see how the iPhone wasn’t aimed
toward them, and it [pissed them
off](http://www.thebestpageintheuniverse.net/c.cgi?u=iphone).

What is more powerful than being able to communicate with someone on the
other side of the planet instantly AKA the internet? The internet in
your pocket. Considering the demographic of this blog, I realize that
many readers may think that I’m stating the obvious. You see, I believe
that the GPS/Internet smartphone will revolutionize EVERYTHING. This is
just the beginning.

Three years ago, it wasn’t really feasible to know where all of your
friends are. Now, with services like Loopt and BrightKite you can. You
can find out where your friends have been using Gowalla and FourSquare.

Three years ago you had to carry your MP3 player and your camera if you
wanted to take good pictures and listen to music. You couldn’t buy music
online your mobile phone. You couldn’t find directions on your mobile
phone. You didn’t have a [personal assistant](http://siri.com/). You
couldn’t download books at the touch of your finger. You couldn’t
download popular 3D games that you’ve played on your console.

Three years ago you couldn’t [video
chat](http://www.apple.com/iphone/features/facetime.html) on your mobile
phone. Look how much has changed in three years.

Apple is the new Ford. At the beginning of the 20th century, cars were
expensive and complicated. That’s what so many people forget about the
iPhone, people claim that their beloved phone can do everything that the
iPhone can do. What they forget is that Steve Jobs is bringing the smart
phone to the masses, much like [Henry Ford revolutionized the auto
industry](http://www.eyewitnesstohistory.com/ford.htm) by bringing the
automobile to the masses.

History will see the iPhone at beginning of the 21st century as the
spark of innovation for the entire 21st century.

What do you think? Do you think that we are at the beginning of a
[revolution](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2010/06/paperback-kindle.html)?

Follow me on Twitter: [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP Richardson

