<!--
id: 744940238
link: http://loudjet.com/a/time-to-quit-your-job-leveraging-the-internet-for
slug: time-to-quit-your-job-leveraging-the-internet-for
date: Mon Jun 28 2010 02:58:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-06-028
tags: 
-->


Time to Quit Your Job: Leveraging the Internet for Content Distribution (3 of 3) 
=================================================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l4pssjBxCv1qzbc4f.jpg)

In the last two installments of “Time to Quit Your Job” you’ve gained
[The
Motivation](http://loudjet.com/a/time-to-quit-your-job-the-motivation-part-1-of-3 "Techneur: Time to Quit Your Job: The Motivation (Part 1 of 3)")
and you’ve [Fought for
Flight](http://loudjet.com/a/time-to-quit-your-job-fight-for-flight-2-of-3 "Time to Quit Your Job: Fight For Flight (2 of 3)"),
now it’s time to Spread Your Wings.

The internet is the ultimate equalizer for small businesses. [Gary
Vaynurchuk](http://twitter.com/garyvee "Follow Gary on Twitter") said it
best, “The Gatekeepers are gone.” Content distribution was previously
guarded by major networks. To gain access, one needed to be aligned in
the business or have deep pockets. Now anyone can distribute anything to
anyone. This means, that those who have a certain expertise, and know
how to distribute that expertise in a creative and smart way, can draw
in the masses.\

**CAPITALIZE ON YOUR PASSION\
**

***Become An Expert*****\
**

Capitalize on your passion by becoming an expert and then showcasing
that expertise to project value.

I used to love to compose digital music with computer synthesizers. I
never really gave it a shot and my glorified hobby eventually fell by
the wayside. Looking back 10 years, there was plenty of advice,
expertise, and value that I had to offer. I could have made tutorials
about certain effects I came up with, shared certain presets for digital
instruments, listed all of the plug-ins I used, reviewed the equipment I
had, showed people how to create songs they heard on the radio, etc. I
wasn’t even an “expert” but I could have been if I would have sharpened
up my piano skills and music theory. I was dumb at the time - I didn’t
know how to leverage the internet. So if you’re passionate about
something that you want to do for a living, then become an expert.
Without expertise, you can’t offer any value to your audience.

***Be Creative***

Knowing your stuff comes first. Next you need to know how to put it out
there in a creative way.

Once you have knowledge of your passion down, inside and out, you need
to start creating content. But not just run-of-the-mill generic content
that anyone can already get from the library. You need to come up with
something that will integrate into people’s lives, something that will
help them.

If you’re passionate about glow-in-the-dark stickers, put up a crazy
[youtube](http://youtube.com "youtube.com") video where you cover your
entire bedroom in a realistic star map and roll footage as you stroll
through the constellations. Pitch the idea as a great way for students
to learn astronomy, kids to have a nightlight, or for a fun date for a
cloudy night. You just gave your audience three great ideas and you have
a great sticker product. Who do you think they’re going to buy from?

For another project, create a colorful sticker overlay and then shine a
light through to display the psychedelic effects. Take pictures and post
them up on [Flickr](http://flickr.com "flickr.com") so people perusing
for trippy photos can stumble upon yours and follow them back to your
blog, where they can purchase your stickers. \

The point is that when you’re truly passionate about something, you will
have a million different ways to show others it’s utility because you’ve
enveloped your life with it.\

**DISTRIBUTE, DISTRIBUTE, DISTRIBUTE**

Your goal is to distribute your creative content over the internet
through a variety of channels. I’ve already mentioned Youtube and Flickr
above. Other channels of distribution and communication are twitter,
facebook, and forums specific to your expertise.

Lets say you’re passionate about traveling, and more specifically, going
on Caribbean cruises. You love to plan them, talk about them, and
actually go on them. Do you know how much of a killing you could make if
you set up affiliate deals?

Let’s say you’ve been on eight cruises and each time you record your
excursions and post them on youtube, your blog, and the pics on flickr.
Then you blog and twitter about your cruise experiences. You also visit
cruise forums to help others pick the right cruises and excursions
according to their wants. On your blog, you have affiliate links for
your favorite cruise line, your favorite excursions, and you even have a
small “cruise essentials” product package that you sell. Hell, you’ll
even plan custom cruises for people for a nominal fee.\

Now, you’ve distributed your content across the web and are actively
engaged with your audience in a two way conversation using twitter,
facebook, and forums. You’re helping them find you so you can help them
experience the best cruise possible. To be more specific, you’re helping
them find your blog. Your blog is the epicenter of your content,
services, and products. Your goal is to get people here so they are
always integrated with your expertise and brand.**\
**

**BOTTOM LINE:**

If you’re doing something of value with your passion, then odds are that
what you’re doing (even if it’s just the process), could help someone
else. The trick is creating content that your audience can use and
distributing it in a way that leads back to your blog.

[Follow Me On
Twitter](http://twitter.com/brianlambelet "Follow Brian on Twitter")

-Brian Lambelet

PS. If this post seems like just the beginning of what someone would
have to do to be successful and quit their job, it is. Half way through
this, I realized that the entire premise of the 3-part quit your job
series is way to ambitious for just three parts. In fact, when I look
back, I’m sad to admit that it’s more gimmicky than anything. I
apologize for this as I was trying to rile up readers into seriously
contemplating their futures. Although, I do believe in everything I’ve
written, I feel that it’s only half the story. I never covered
brick-and-mortar businesses nor businesses with high initial overhead.
Start up logistics and value propositions were also neglected. I want to
help whatever the case may be so if you do have a business in mind,
whether it’s high or low overhead, just post up on techneur and I will
do my best.

