<!--
id: 707087897
link: http://techneur.com/post/707087897/time-to-quit-your-job-the-motivation-part-1-of-3
slug: time-to-quit-your-job-the-motivation-part-1-of-3
date: Thu Jun 17 2010 01:03:37 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-06-017
tags: 
-->


Time to Quit Your Job: The Motivation (part 1 of 3)
===================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l44z57gksW1qzbc4f.jpg)

Most people go to work to support their passions. They spend 40 hours a
week in the shackles of an office for the opportunity to break free at
home. I have a friend who is a banker that loves to cook. Another friend
is a bartender that loves to fish. You probably have friends like this
to. Maybe you’re like them. Maybe you’re like most of us - trading your
days away for small blips of happiness on the nights and weekends. So
what happened? How did we end up so lifeless and what can we do to fix
it?

**The Slave Factory\
**

Here’s what I see happen all the time. A student graduates and enters
young adulthood exhausted and primed to become another cog in the wheel.
They teach you the “what” at school but they sure as hell don’t teach
you the “why”. Like why would I want to spend my day at a bank job that
I hate? Why would I want to offer an artificial smile just because my
manager says so? Free humans aren’t meant to do what they loathe, slaves
are. Now you have ask yourself, “Am I a slave?”

**Time is The Most Valuable Resource, So Spend it Wisely**

When you have a job you despise you end up working it all the time, even
when you’re at home. You vent about it to your family and friends, you
take the worries with you before you go to bed, and you wake up every
day dreading that 7am buzzer. If you had financial freedom, you could
just quit. But you don’t. So every project handed your way gets
over-analyzed and worried over because it may be your last. Every week,
we spend half of our waking hours, physically, at our jobs. Our minds
spend much more time there.

If you dislike your job, get up and go look at yourself in the mirror
(do it, stop bullshitting and go find a mirror). Think about your job
and imagine how bad you will feel in 1 year from now, in 5 years, and in
ten. With each interval, imagine all the time wasted towards something
you loathe. Imagine coming home frustrated and reeling about all of the
dreams you gave up on. Take it out further to how this affects your
family, your friends, and your relationships. How you’re always tired.
How the very essence of life has dried up. Look at your face and tell me
what you see at the end of ten years. Do you like your reflection?

Now, do something different. Imagine that you put a plan into play in
the next few weeks (I’ll help you in part 2 & 3) to gain financial
freedom. Imagine that, wthin a year, you are able to quit your job and
pursue your dream. Look at your face in the mirror as you see your life
one year from now, five years, and 10 years. How you’ve gone through
struggles and learned something new. How you are in control of your own
destiny. How you no longer come home complaining, but come home
championing your day. Imagine being proud of what you’ve built. Look at
your face and tell me what you see at the end of ten years. Do you like
your reflection?

**Don’t Regress Or You Will Regret**

Most people will read this and get a fire in their belly. Eventually,
that fire will fade and the only thing remaining will be the smoke they
blew up their own ass. They’ll go back to their shithole jobs and in ten
years, they’ll look in the mirror and hate what they see. You’re one of
those people. You’ll never start because it’s too hard, you have too
many expenses, you have a family, it’s too risky, you don’t have time,
or whatever excuse you need for justification. Even your friends and
family will tell you that it’s crazy and you have too much to lose. Deep
down inside, what you and everybody else is really thinking is that you
don’t have what it takes…

Or do you?

> It’s never too late to be who you might have been.
>
> **[George
> Eliot](http://www.quotationspage.com/quotes/George_Eliot/ "George Eliot Quotes")**\
> *English novelist (1819 - 1880)*

[Follow Me on
Twitter](http://twitter.com/brianlambelet "Follow Brian on Twitter")

-Brian Lambelet

