<!--
id: 1046726534
link: http://loudjet.com/a/are-you-a-commodity-foursquare-facebook-location
slug: are-you-a-commodity-foursquare-facebook-location
date: Wed Sep 01 2010 02:28:42 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-09-01
tags: facebook, foursquare, social network, social community, social status, commodity
-->


Are You a Commodity? Foursquare > Facebook Location
===================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l80e6a5G2F1qzbc4f.jpg)

I don’t care if you run your own business or work in a small corner
cubicle kissing your boss’s ass everyday. Ask yourself this: “Am I a
commodity?” Better yet, ask yourself: “If I was replaced by joe schmo
person or product, would anybody know?” If the answer is “yes,” then
you’re in trouble…

**Don’t Be a Commodity**

Don’t worry, you’re not the only one. When Reflect7 asks itself if it’s
Mobile Sports Fan software is a commodity, the answer is a resounding
“Yes.” That’s right, we’re just like Walmart’s “Great Value” brand. We
deliver *almost *the same amount of content for much less. Have you ever
bought the Great Value brand Salsa? It fucking sucks. It’s a watered
down version of Paste Picante and if you eat it two hours before you go
to bed you’re guaranteed nightmares about the Spanish inquisition. How
do I know this? I am a cheap ass. What has this taught me? Don’t be a
commodity.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l80e6t0JLz1qzbc4f.jpg)

When you’re a commodity, you compete on a single value proposition:
cost. You are exactly like your counterpart, but you’re cheaper. This is
a bad position to be in. For one, someone will come along with cheaper
labor, parts, better technology, etc. and undercut your price. Number
two, and more importantly, nobody will give a shit about you.

The one thing that Reflect7 is doing right is answering customer
feedback with vigor and empathy. We care what people think about our
apps and getting back to our customers makes us fell warm and tingly
inside. Especially JP; he gets a hard-on just thinking about customer
service. But that’s not the point. The point is to have a value
proposition that is unique. What can you offer your customers that
nobody else can? I’m about to tell you what. And if your knee-deep in
the technology world, get ready for the biggest schooling of your life…

**Social Status**

The answer is some form of Social Status.**That’s why Foursquare \>
Facebook Location.** Whoops, I said it! Contrary to popular belief,
Facebook will not crush Foursquare or any of other the annoying
check-in, location-based apps. Why? Because facebook hasn’t built a
dedicated community around location.

If I check-in to Patty’s Pasties with facebook on a hot summer night,
what does that get me? Nothing. Now, if I’m on Foursquare, I might
become mayor of Patties Pasties. Now you’re asking, “Well who the hell
cares about being mayor at some place?” Here’s my answer: Imagine your
most favorite place in the world that you like to go. For me, it’s
Denny’s (I love the grandslam breakfast). Now, imagine that you’re VIP
status at your favorite place. You get the best seat in the house, they
know you by name, and everyone else there knows that you’re the
grandslam champion.

Although somewhat exagerated, this is what Foursquare has done.
Foursquare has given people status at their favorite places. At clubs,
VIP status sells for a reason. Foursquare realizes this and has created
the corresponding game mechanics to extrapolate and share status in a
space where it used to go grossly unnoticed.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l80ez3bBJb1qzbc4f.png)

Being the mayor of a downtown Starbucks might just make you the biggest
douchebag in the city. But inside your head, it means something. It
means that you “own” the place. Your spending habits might have been
Starbucks-crazy for the last five years, but ever since Foursquare,
**you are now attaching an emotion to it.**Being the “Mayor” gives you a
sense of pride, winning, being the best, etc. Whatever it is, it’s
created an emotional link in an hypersensitive space: a social network.
That’s what Foursquare and company have done that Facebook cannot easily
replicate.

**Facebook is the Platform**

My business partner Corey put it best when he said that Facebook is “A
glorified photo-sharing app.” Zuckerberg and friends do a little bit
more, but for them to encorporate any uniform game mechanics wouldn’t
make sense. They’re a platform for games, not a game in itself. Focusing
in on a singular reward system would create inbalance with their
platform ecosystem. It would create a chasm between third-party
developers and the host. Besides, they already have a subtle built-in
game mechanic: how many friends you have.

It’s better for Facebook to just hand out Facebook game credits for
participating and let users define their own subgroup (third party app)
to game status from. This is exactly what they’re doing. I just noticed
today that I have 10 Facebook credits to spend on games. I can purchase
more through credit cards, paypal, or my mobile phone bill. Facebook is
encouraging it’s platform as an avenue to game just as a gift card to
iTunes would encourage you to buy a song from the thousands of artists
competing for your ears.

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l80fctV5bO1qzbc4f.jpg)

**Build a Social Community**

So here’s what I hope Reflect7 is going to do. I hope we’re going to
create a Sports Fan community that gives people status based on their
participation. A community where people are emotionally attached because
it’s fun, involving, and gives them a chance to express themselves. This
way, when ESPN or some other Sports giant decides to move in on our
space, people won’t go for the cheapest product that delivers the most
information (the commodity). Instead, they’ll stick with a social
community where they have an established reputation and persona. A
community where they have a VIP status.

What will you do to make sure you’re not a commodity?

If you liked this post, you may like:

​1) [Compete on High
Touch ](http://loudjet.com/a/compete-on-high-touch "Compete on High Touch ")

​2) [Give Your Customers a Story to
Tell ](http://loudjet.com/a/give-your-customers-a-story-to-tell "Give Your Customers a Story to Tell")

​3) [Steve Jobs Lesson on marketing and values and
belief ](http://loudjet.com/a/steve-jobs-lesson-on-marketing-values-and-belief "Steve Jobs Lesson on marketing and values and belief ")

[Follow Me on
Twitter](http://twitter.com/brianlambelet "Follow Me On Twitter")

-Brian Lambelet

