<!--
id: 640205730
link: http://loudjet.com/a/1-head-is-better-than-2-or-3-or-4-or-etc
slug: 1-head-is-better-than-2-or-3-or-4-or-etc
date: Fri May 28 2010 03:27:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-05-028
tags: reflect7
-->


1 Head is Better than 2, or 3, or 4, or etc.
============================================

![Getting nowhere fast - the two-headed
turtle](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l34ew4Mr5F1qzbc4f.jpg)

Your probably saying to yourself, “This Brian guy should have went to
third grade math class instead of sniffing glue.”  Well I’m not talking
about just numbers here.  I’m talking about the equity of
decisionmaking.

In my first business, we had two parnters and one employee later on.  We
had two main decision-makers, myself and my partner.  Usually everything
operated smoothly because we saw eye to eye on a lot of things.  Every
once in a while, we had a divergence and the stand still was enormous. 
We would spend days discussing and researching and then finally go in a
direction.  Often times, the other person would have to be pulled along
causing a drag from the dead weight.  When the projects or direction
would come to a close, we would discuss the mistakes and/or what we
would do differently. 

In a lot of ways, this represents the standstill that we see in our
government.  With two factions constantly fighting each other, nothing
really gets done.  Instead, it’s a heated standstill. If one side gets
their way, the other side will sabotage it.  If our government were a
business, it would be a massive failure. Let me restate that, when our
government pokes its head into businesses, it churns out massive
failures.

Now look at China. There we have a fluid government.  One acting head
that decides the countries direction.  Is there a chance of corruption? 
Yes.  But it’s not like we’re avoiding it here.  The Chinese have the
truest form of capitalism and their ecomony is flourishing for it. 
However, the Chinese don’t have inalienable rights.  There is no freedom
of press and therefore, there is no freedom to exchange ideas. This
stifles their growth.\

Here’s an idea, come up with a bill of rights, elect a leader, and then
do what that leader says.  I know, I know, it’s crazy.  In a large
institution, any dramatic shift in resources could set the country back
years.  However, that same shift could set the country forwards as
well.  With the former, at least you executed on a problem and could
highlight the mistakes.  With the latter, you did something right and
can build on that in the future.  Either way, you DID SOMETHING.

In a large institution, like a nation’s government, this might not be
applicable.  But in a small business, it is definitely applicable.  Let
me lay out three imaginary businesses that are in competition.  Each
business makes Widget X; however, they are all structured differently:

​1) Company A has one CEO who ultimately decides the fate of the
company.  That CEO hears out the other people on his team and makes a
decision based on their input.  The decision is final and the team is
loyal because the CEO hired according to this structure.

​2) Company B has two partners at the top that decide the fate of the
company.  The two partners will hear out their team’s ideas and then
make a decision.  The decision is final and the team is loyal to the
partners because they hired accordingly.

​3) Company C has three partners at the top. etc. etc.

In a bet, I would take Company A every time in terms of success.  Why? 
Because they are the most agile.  They can pivot on a dime and the
decisions don’t cost them crazy amounts of time or angst.  If Company A
is going to make a mistake, they will make it fast and then go in the
right direction.  The other two Business’s have to hash it out.  Too
many egos at the top.  They can’t be agile because each has the best
idea in the way the company could go.  **And here’s the catch: they’re
probably all correct! **The problem is, they will never reach full
execution because each hard decision made can leave another member
dissatisfied and contemptuous. 

I look to my favorite three companies [37
Signals](http://37signals.com "37signals.com"), [Wine Library
TV](http://tv.winelibrary.com "tv.winelibrary.com"), and
[Zappos](http://Zappos.com "Zappos").  At the top sit Jason Fried, Gary
V., and Tony H.  These guys all have final say and guide their company
in whatever direction they deem necessary.  Their workers are loyal and
based on their track records, they should be.

I learned this the hard way with my previous business where I had one
equal partner.  Standstills happened and nothing got done.  If something
did go in a certain direction, and wasn’t a great success, there was
resentment.  Now I own that business free and clear and the only hard
part about making any decisions is not being able to execute them fast
enough.  In a way, the mental worries are free because there are no
heated debates. If I’m going to learn, I’m going to learn right away and
the waters aren’t muddied because a partner wasn’t motivated to execute.

Now there’s a fourth type of company. Company D has equal distribution
of leadership and realizes that [business is a
Marriage](http://loudjet.com/a/business-marriage "Business is a Marriage Blog Post").
Sometimes, you have to give in to get going. If the company leaders are
aware of their situation and attuned to the process, they will
ultimately defeat Business A because they will have a larger pool of
ideas to create and pivot from.  So if you’re just starting, know which
type of company you want to be. If you have partners, make sure they are
attuned to the “Marriage” attitude. Each leader may have their different
strategy to get to point B from point A.

What do you think? Will Company A rule all or does it depend more on
company culture (company D)? \

You can follow me on Twitter
[@brianlambelet](http://twitter.com/brianlambelet)

-Brian

