<!--
id: 572976797
link: http://loudjet.com/a/business-personality
slug: business-personality
date: Wed May 05 2010 02:26:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-05-05
tags: 
-->


Put Personality Into Your Business
==================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1xrbehED41qzbc4f.jpg)

[Popquiz hot shot](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0111257/quotes): what do
[Sandhills Publishing](http://sandhills.com) and
[InfoUSA](http://infousa.com) have in common? One has a “diverse range
of products” and the other is “dedicated to building innovative
solutions.” One provides “specialized electronic information services”
and the other has “experts who offer a deep understanding with
unsurpassed diversity.” Have you figured it out yet? They’re writing is
boring. They’re boring. They sound like everyone else.

I like what [Jason
Fried](http://loudjet.com/a/entrepreneurial-heroes) of 37
Signals [writes](http://www.inc.com/magazine/20100501/why-is-business-writing-so-awful.html)
on the topic:

When you write like everyone else and sound like everyone else and act
like everyone else, you’re saying, “Our products are like everyone
else’s, too.” Or think of it this way: Would you go to a dinner party
and just repeat what the person to the right of you is saying all night
long? Would that be interesting to anybody? So why are so many
businesses saying the same things at the biggest party on the planet —
the marketplace?

If your writing is on the front lines and its boring, it lends the
impression that you’re boring. Are you boring? To borrow an example from
Jason Fried’s latest
[article](http://www.inc.com/magazine/20100501/why-is-business-writing-so-awful.html). What
do Woot and Saddleback Leather have in common? Saddleback’s
[story](http://www.saddlebackleather.com/19-saddleback-story) starts
with “I got my first exposure to real tough leather at a Mexican
bullfight… and I was the one fighting the bull.” Saddleback’s story is
compelling enough to keep you engaged. That’s just the beginning of it.
Read their [warranty](http://www.saddlebackleather.com/17-warranty).
Woot’s [FAQ](http://www.woot.com/whatiswoot.aspx) contains this nugget:
“We anticipate profitability by 2043 – by then we should be retired;
someone smarter might take over and jack up the prices. Until then,
we’re still the lovable scamps we’ve always been.” Wow! I love it.

Let’s say you want to write about the simplicity of your latest and
greatest iPhone app. You could say: “XYZ is so simple, the features are
laid out in an intuitive easy to use way.” I’m asleep already. Or you
could [say](http://finalmadness.com): “One pinky. That’s all it takes to
use Final Madness. If you’re a one-armed man with no legs, you can still
operate this app. Keep your fingers rested and ready for what really
matters - communicating obscene gestures to the ref.” The former is
about as useful as saying “we deliver innovative solutions with 35 years
of executive experience in our industry.” It doesn’t communicate
anything. You could argue that the latter doesn’t communicate much
either, but it does put a smile on your face and it gets the point
across. It entices you to actually try the app, because you’ve never
heard about a one-armed man with no legs using an iPhone. But, you’ve
heard about innovative solutions, leading providers, and unsurpassed
customer service. Snoozefest.

These vapid [business
phrases](http://blog.asmartbear.com/authentic-dead.html) must go. Please
have a personality! People don’t relate with products, they relate with
people. Have an opinion. You’ll keep us engaged. Don’t let your business
be boring. [Write like a
blogger](http://sethgodin.typepad.com/seths_blog/2008/04/write-like-a-bl.html).

You can follow me on
Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

