<!--
id: 570120631
link: http://techneur.com/post/570120631/idea-sucks
slug: idea-sucks
date: Tue May 04 2010 00:24:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-05-04
tags: ideas
-->


The Only Person Who Cares About Your Idea Is Your Mom
=====================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1vqzcIrtL1qzbc4f.jpg)

Hello, my name is JP and I have a problem. I think that my idea matters.
I think that by keeping it secret, I’ll be able to develop it into a
mega-corp capable of crushing Apple, Microsoft, and Google!

Why do I still suffer from this syndrome? Repeat after me: “My idea
sucks, and no one cares about my idea. Maybe if I bust my ass, I can
turn my crappy idea into a decent product that somebody will pay me
their lunch money.” I know the reality though. Ideas really are
worthless, or maybe [they’re just a
multiplier](http://sivers.org/multiply). Execution is everything.

Let’s also end this notion that in order to share an idea, we have to
get the other party to sign an NDA. People have requested this of
[Reflect7](http://reflect7.com), and I flat out refuse. Most ideas are
lame. Something along the lines of “I want to create a social a site
like Facebook, but for [cats](http://theoatmeal.com/comics/cat_know)!
Everyone loves kitties!! LOLZZ” It opens up an unnecessary potential
legal liability. If your idea is so easy to steal, your competitors will
do it once you release it anyway. Also, If you’re trying to engage in a
partnership, [you want mercenaries,
not missionaries](http://venturehacks.com/articles/ndas-wazoo). A NDA is
not a way to start a relationship.

 I like what Chris Dixon suggests that you should [share your idea with
anyone who will
listen](http://cdixon.org/2009/08/22/why-you-shouldnt-keep-your-startup-idea-secret/):

There are lots of benefits to talking to people.  You’ll get suggestions
for improvements.  You’ll discover flaws and hopefully correct them.  
You’ll learn a lot more about the sector/industry.  You’ll learn about
competitive products that exist or are being built.  You’ll gauge
people’s excitement level for the product and for various features.
 You’ll refine your sales and investor pitch.  You might even discover
your idea is a bad idea and save yourself years of hitting your head
against the wall.\
\
 In terms of the risk of someone stealing your idea, there are at best a
handful of people in the world who might actually drop everything and
copy your idea.\
\
 First of all, most people will probably think your idea is stupid.
 This does not mean your idea is stupid.  In fact, if everyone loves
your idea, I might be worried that it’s not forward thinking enough.

He wrote another post on actually [developing these
ideas](http://cdixon.org/2010/03/14/developing-new-startup-ideas/).

But, when it comes down to it, your idea sucks. Share it with anyone and
everyone. Get feedback.

[Your idea sucks, now go do it
anyway](http://blog.asmartbear.com/your-idea-sucks-now-go-do-it-anyway.html).

You can follow me on
Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

