<!--
id: 615265667
link: http://techneur.com/post/615265667/learning-pains
slug: learning-pains
date: Wed May 19 2010 23:44:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-05-019
tags: reflect7
-->


Learning Pains
==============

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l2pbt95RbJ1qzbc4f.jpg)

Last night, my business [partners and I](http://reflect7.com/about-us)
had one of the biggest debates within the last year of being in
business. We ended up making a decision that will forever change our
company. We were suppose to update our iPhone football apps. They had
some bugs that caused them to occasionally crash and they needed to be
updated with 2010 information.

Corey brought up his concern of reputation with the sports apps, as in
developers may shun our next product (it’s iPhone developer focused)
because our sports app are seen as
[shovelware](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shovelware). He suggested we
either move our next product to another LLC to remove association or to
move our sports apps to another LLC. He had a point. We dealt with this
a bit on Reddit when I
[posted](http://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/bc4ot/why_i_am_giving_up_building_a_business_on_the/)
my article about how [developing for the app store was a losing
proposition](http://techneur.com/post/440686528/its-all-our-fault-why-building-a-business-on-the).
But, I wasn’t willing to move anything out of Reflect7 or start anything
outside of Reflect7. Reflect7 is who we are. It’s our brand. It’s our
story, mistakes and everything.

I didn’t agree originally. I felt that we should stick to the plan.
Brian definitely didn’t agree. Brian’s point was that we should stick
with the plan since it makes us money and we can move on to our ideas
afterwards. He rationalized that to finish up the sports fan
applications, it won’t take us much more time. Maybe a month at most.
Then we could tackle our next projects.

I soon conceded with Corey. But not for reasons of reputation. My points
are as follows and they aren’t listed in any particular priority.

​1) Time is our scarcest resource. Day jobs already consume a good
portion of our time. Therefore, we must be selective on how we spend
that time.

​2) Money is not a motivating factor for me. I simply don’t care about
money. Money is a means to end. I just want financial freedom. The
sports applications were bringing on average \$2.5k a month. Not bad.
But, I had no passion behind them. Originally, we developed them to
solve our own problem. That is, we wanted the information in an easy
accessible manner on our smart phone. We included the
[Husker](http://www.huskers.com/) logo and the player photos in the
original Husker Fan app. We were oblivious to trademark issues (yea I
know, we should have done due diligence). We eventually were contacted
by the [CLC](http://www.clc.com/) to remove it or face litigation. So we
changed Husker Fan to Nebraska Fan. It became a generic, a commodity. We
eventually made more teams. More commodities. The only way to make more
money, is to make more apps. Scale to new sports and new platforms. It
feels cheap. Concerning corporate survival, the difference between \$0
and \$10k is nil when your expenses are \$100/month.

​3) Passion & purpose mean the world to me. I lost my passion and
purpose behind the Sports Fan apps. People aren’t loyal to generics and
commodities. I want to have a bigger impact. I want to change the world.
This won’t happen with sports fan applications.

​4) We all conceded months ago that we will eventually stop
making/improving the sports fan apps. I rationalized that it makes sense
for us to do it now, since it’s early in our company’s life. To make
that kind of change later could be disastrous.

​5) We developed a product idea about a month ago that we’re all
very enthusiastic about. We also developed a non-profit idea called Mind
Spread at [Big Omaha](http://bigomaha.com). Mind Spread is essentially
Pay-It-Forward for books. We wanted to ride the momentum of Big Omaha
and get it out ASAP. We want to recruit others to help us with our
mission of improving the world by spreading knowledge and culture. We
want to [lead a
tribe](http://www.amazon.com/Tribes-We-Need-You-Lead/dp/1591842336). We
believe that this would truly help us change the world and that if we
followed Gary V’s mantra of [Legacy \>
Currency](http://garyvaynerchuk.com/post/78887853/legacy-is-greater-than-currency),
we are making the right decision, as the currency would follow.

​6) If we got the sports apps up and running to where they should be,
we’ll still have problems. We screen scrape data from CBS/ESPN. They
change the HTML, the pages change. The screen scraper misinterprets data
at times and causes crappy data for our customers. That makes us look
poorly. We don’t own the data we are dependent upon. I don’t mind
putting out fires if I’m building Rome, but I don’t like trying to
continuously fix my house that’s built on the sand.

​7) I live by the axiom of living life with no regrets. If the sports
fan apps take too long, and we can’t get Mind Spread out, I could see
myself potentially regretting it. Whereas, if I follow my passion and
purpose, I don’t think it’s possible to be wrong.

I don’t know if we made the right decision. I like to think that we did,
but time will tell. I do know that Brian isn’t comfortable with it, and
that bothers me.

I would really appreciate your thoughts on this post, especially if you
disagree. Thanks for your time.

Take care.

You can follow me on
Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

