<!--
id: 575667016
link: http://loudjet.com/a/man-no-arms-no-legs-teach-success
slug: man-no-arms-no-legs-teach-success
date: Thu May 06 2010 02:52:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-05-06
tags: 
-->


What a Man with No Arms And No Legs Can Teach Us About Success
==============================================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1zn2q2HPe1qzbc4f.jpg)

[Nick Vujicic](http://www.attitudeisaltitude.com/aboutus-nick.php)
(pronounced Voy-a-chich) was born in Australia on December 4th, 1982.
Doctors were shocked when he was delivered, as Nick has no arms nor
legs. This was completely unexpected, ultrasounds didn’t show any
complications or issues. As you can imagine, life was tough for Nick.
Growing up Nick was teased and by age 8, Nick contemplated suicide.

Eventually, Nick realized that limits were self-imposed. Now Nick
travels the world as a motivational speaker and shares his experiences.
Nick can teach us much about what it takes to be a successful
entrepreneur when faced with what seem to be impervious obstacles to
overcome.

**Perspective** - Nick said “You must realize where you are and what you
have.” You can’t let yourself see obstacles, they will only serve to
demotivate you. [Rework](http://loudjet.com/a/rework) has
a chapter dedicated to constraints. The gist of it is that constraints
force creativity. Megacorps have bureaucratic processes, you don’t.
Megacorps are large aircraft carriers, you are a small naval destroyer.
Focus on what you have, use small as an advantage. [Constraints will set
you
free](http://37signals.com/svn/archives2/constraints_breed_breakthrough_creativity.php).

**Hope** - Can you imagine what it would be like with no arms or no
legs? I’ll say it, it would suck. Look at the [1000’s of Youtube videos
of Nick](http://www.youtube.com/results?search_query=Nick+Vujicic&aq=f).
How happy does he look? While watching his videos, it’s easy to forget
the obvious and focus on his message. Hope is powerful. Hell, Barack
Obama campaigned on Hope. 

**Vision** -  Nick said “I’m going to be on the Oprah show.” The crowd
applauses. He then went on to say “she just doesn’t know it yet.”
Laughter ensues. The message is clear. Don’t be afraid to dream big.
Apple was almost bankrupt, Google wasn’t taken seriously, and Facebook
was created in a dorm room. Dreams can help establish a purpose. [Dream
big](http://reflect7.com/vision).

**Perseverance** - Never ever give up. I wonder how many times it took
Nick to learn how to kick a soccer ball? Balance a ball on his head?
Answer the phone? Type on the computer? Swim? He didn’t give up. We
shouldn’t either. “When the going gets tough, the tough get going.” -
Billy Ocean

**Patience** - Success will not happen
[overnight](http://www.codinghorror.com/blog/2009/01/overnight-success-it-takes-years.html).
Your time will come. Keep taking baby steps and work diligently towards
your dreams. [Overnight success takes
years](http://37signals.com/svn/posts/1624-overnight-success-takes-years). 

Being an entrepreneur brings along a roller coaster of emotions. When
you’re at the bottom, remember Nick Vujicic and his wonderful
attributes. Use him as inspiration to boost you to the next level.

You can follow me on
Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

