<!--
id: 555332733
link: http://loudjet.com/a/business-marriage
slug: business-marriage
date: Wed Apr 28 2010 01:37:00 GMT-0500 (CDT)
publish: 2010-04-028
tags: 
-->


Starting A Business Is Like Getting Married
===========================================

![](http://media.tumblr.com/tumblr_l1kqcnHOUo1qzbc4f.jpg)

[Much](http://www.nicksergi.com/?p=85) has
[been](http://asack.typepad.com/a_sack_of_seattle/2009/12/3-years-of-startups-is-like-10-years-of-marriage.html)
[written](http://www.nytimes.com/2007/11/29/business/smallbusiness/29sbiz.html)
on why starting a business with cofounders is like getting married. I
think this is obvious. A business, much like a marriage, needs
commitment and love to survive.

Earlier today, I read a theatrical story about an entrepreneur named
Eric who lost his cofounder, was forced out of his company, and to make
the story worse, his cofounder was the one who took Eric’s girlfriend!
Don’t fret, the story ends with Eric kicking the crap out of his
previous company. He even has a lovely wife and is living happily ever
after. The story is compelling enough to make for a decent Hollywood B
movie. You can read this uninspiring fairytale here: [My co-founder took
my company and my girlfriend](http://blog.cubeofm.com/cofounders).

As much as everyone love’s a good story, I’m more interested in sharing
my thoughts on one of the points that the author made. The author
writes:

And yes, a partnership is never really equal. There has to be someone
who is somewhat more equal than others. There is nothing more
devastating than a partnership were all the members have exactly equal
rights and votes. This just does not work. Human society and all monkeys
always have a single individual at the top and with all others, even
though they are almost equal, being not quite equal.\
\
 Any company where several people believe they should have final say or
be consulted on final say is usually going to fail with a bunch of
arguments and fights. The partnership may actually work very well in
this mode so long no money I’d bring made, but as soon as there is cash,
the clashes will start.\
\
 There has to be a clear and obvious leader who has final say within
every company. That’s just how the big apes roll.

I couldn’t disagree with this sentiment more. When you start a company
with others, everyone involved should really start with equal shares. I
don’t care if your best friend’s brother who is joining your startup
isn’t into business development. I don’t care if your uncle can’t
program. If you have others joining your startup, they should get equal
shares. What’s that you say? It was your idea? I’m sure your mom is
proud, but nobody else cares. [Ideas are just a multiplier of
execution](http://sivers.org/multiply). 

When I joined my first business partners on a startup, we didn’t have
equal shares. The business was a web site to promote local businesses
and restaurants. There were three of us. Two of us had a
disproportionally amount of shares compared to guy who had the original
idea for the business. In the beginning, I didn’t care. I was
bright-eyed and bushy-tailed and ready to kick ass. Over time, I began
to feel resentment when I was expected to work as many hours and as hard
as the guy who had the large share. Well, the rest of the story is
history. Eventually our business collapsed.

Am I suggesting that you and your business partners should have equal
shares and should take part in the work equally? Yes, you should have
equal shares, but you’re delusional if you think that everyone will work
equally. Much like a marriage, a business will split work 50-50, 60-40,
70-30, etc. Sometimes you’ll work harder, sometimes your business
partners will work harder. Just like a successful marriage, a successful
partnership in business requires everyone to possess the following
traits.

**Conflict Resolution\
**Conflict will invariably happen. You must learn how to work as a team
to accomplish your vision. When conflict occurs, it’s important for you
to focus and resolve the conflict as quickly as possible. Don’t bury
anything. It will inevitably come back and hurt the business if it’s not
resolved as soon as possible.

**Empathy**\
As I said earlier, the work in your business will not always be split
evenly amongst everyone. I think that’s a noble goal. I think that’s OK
to shoot for that. But, you must be empathetic to your business
partners’ life situations. 

**Commitment**\
A business will be like riding a roller coaster. There are so many ups
and downs. You have to be in it for the long haul. You have to be
willing to be committed “for better” or “for worse.” [Never never give
up](http://wiki.answers.com/Q/When_did_Winston_Churchill_say_Never_never_never_never_give_up_and_to_whom_was_his_speech_addressed).

**Communication**\
You must always be willing to discuss your point of view. You must
always be willing to talk. Much like a marriage, you shouldn’t always
spend time doing business stuff. Go out and get a drink. Talk about your
dreams. Talk about the football game on saturday. Communicate about
anything and everything.

**Candor**\
When you communicate, you must be open, honest, and diplomatic. Being
honest is liberating. Being candid allows good ideas to flow freely and
sets bad ideas to rest.

I hate my partners. [Corey & Brian](http://reflect7.com/about-us) are
dicks. Just kidding, they are my friends, my business partners, and my
brothers. We often joke about beating each other in those [giant sumo
suits](http://images.google.com/images?q=giant%20sumo%20suit&um=1&ie=UTF-8&source=og&sa=N&hl=en&tab=wi),
but at least we know we’ll be able to get a beer afterwards and BS about
strategy or life.

What do you think are the necessary traits that partnerships should
have?

You can follow me on
Twitter [@jprichardson](http://twitter.com/jprichardson)

-JP

